>> Sreenivasan: ON THIS EDITION
FOR SUNDAY, JULY 23:
A HORRIFIC CASE OF IMMIGRANT
SMUGGLING DISCOVERED IN A
TRACTOR TRAILER IN TEXAS.
AND IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT:
VENICE IN PERIL-- PERSISTENT
FLOODING GETTING WORSE DUE TO
CLIMATE CHANGE.
NEXT ON PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
>>FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS
AT LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: GOOD EVENING AND
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
FEDERAL AND STATE LAW
ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS IN SAN
ANTONIO, TEXAS, ARE
INVESTIGATING HOW NEARLY 40
PEOPLE WERE LEFT INSIDE A
TRACTOR TRAILER IN STIFLING
SUMMER HEAT.
THEY WERE UNDOCUMENTED
IMMIGRANTS-- WITH NO WATER OR
AIR CONDITIONING-- WHO APPEAR TO
BE VICTIMS OF WHAT ONE FEDERAL
PROSECUTOR CALLED "RUTHLESS
HUMAN SMUGGLERS."
SAN ANTONIO POLICE DISCOVERED
THE 18-WHEEL TRUCK IN A WAL-MART
PARKING LOT OVERNIGHT.
THEY WERE TIPPED OFF BY AN
EMPLOYEE AFTER SOMEONE FROM THE
TRUCK HAD APPROACHED THE STORE
TO ASK FOR WATER.
TEMPERATURES REACHED 101 DEGREES
IN SAN ANTONIO YESTERDAY, AND IT
WAS AROUND 90 DEGREES WHEN
POLICE OPENED UP THE TRUCK.
THEY FOUND EIGHT DEAD BODIES,
AND 30 OTHERS WHO REQUIRED
MEDICAL ATTENTION, TWO OF WHOM
LATER DIED AT THE HOSPITAL.
SAN ANTONIO'S FIRE CHIEF SAID
SURVIVORS WERE, "VERY HOT TO THE
TOUCH."
SOME HAD HEART RATES ABOVE 130
BEATS A MINUTE.
20 OF THOSE HOSPITALIZED WERE
LISTED IN CRITICAL OR SERIOUS
CONDITION, SUFFERING FROM
EXTREME DEHYDRATION AND HEAT
STROKE.
FOUR SURVIVORS WERE BELIEVED TO
BE BETWEEN TEN AND 17 YEARS OLD.
SAN ANTONIO POLICE CHIEF WILLIAM
McMANUS SAID WAL-MART
SURVEILLANCE CAMERA VIDEO SHOWS
OTHER VEHICLES PICKED UP PEOPLE
FROM INSIDE THE TRACTOR TRAILER
AT AN EARLIER TIME.
POLICE HAVE ARRESTED THE TRUCK
DRIVER AND ARE LOOKING INTO WHO
ELSE MIGHT HAVE BEEN INVOLVED IN
THE SMUGGLING OPERATION.
THE TRUCK WAS REGISTERED TO A
COMPANY IN IOWA.
THE NATIONALITIES OF THE
MIGRANTS TRAPPED IN THE TRUCK
HAVE NOT BEEN DISCLOSED, THOUGH
SOME HAVE IDENTIFIED THEMSELVES
AS MEXICANS.
U.S. CUSTOMS AND BORDER
PROTECTION TOLD THE "NEW YORK
TIMES" THEY WERE PROBABLY
IMMIGRANTS WHO CROSSED THE
BORDER WITH MEXICO ON FOOT AND
THEN WERE PICKED UP BY
SMUGGLERS.
C.B.P. HAS SEEN OTHER CASES IN
RECENT MONTHS OF MIGRANTS
TRANSPORTED IN THE BACK OF
TRUCKS.
THE DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND
SECURITY SAYS ITS INVESTIGATIONS
FOR HUMAN SMUGGLING RESULTED IN
MORE THAN 1,500 CRIMINAL
CONVICTIONS LAST YEAR.
THIS YEAR, SINCE PRESIDENT TRUMP
TOOK OFFICE, ARRESTS OF
IMMIGRANTS ALLEGEDLY TRYING TO
CROSS THE BORDER ILLEGALLY HAVE
DROPPED STEADILY, INDICATING
FEWER ATTEMPTS.
THE BORDER PATROL ARRESTED
ALMOST 22,000 ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS
LAST MONTH-- LESS THAN HALF THE
46,000 ARRESTED IN JUNE OF 2016.
ONE OF PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
PERSONAL LAWYERS IS DENYING
REPORTS THAT MISTER TRUMP HAS
BEEN MULLING PARDONS.
JAY SEKULOW SAID TODAY THEY'RE
NOT LOOKING AT THAT OPTION - IN
CASE ANYONE IS CRIMINALLY
CHARGED BY THE SPECIAL COUNSEL
INVESTIGATING COLLUSION WITH
RUSSIA IN ITS MEDDLING WITH LAST
YEAR'S ELECTION.
>> PARDONS HAVE NOT BEEN
DISCUSSED, AND PARDONS ARE NOT
ON THE TABLE.
>> Sreenivasan: THE NEW WHITE
HOUSE COMMUNICATIONS DIRECTOR--
ANTHONY SCARAMUCCI-- ALSO SAID
TODAY THE PRESIDENT WON'T NEED
TO PARDON ANYBODY.
>> THE TRUTH OF THE MATTER IS
THAT THE PRESIDENT ISN'T GOING
TO HAVE TO PARDON ANYBODY,
BECAUSE THE RUSSIA THING IS A
NONSENSICAL THING.
I WAS THERE EARLY ON IN THE
CAMPAIGN, I DIDN'T HAVE ANY
INTERACTIVITY WITH RUSSIANS.
I DIDN'T SEE ANYBODY HAVE ANY
IT IS COMPLETELY BOGUS AND
NONSENSICAL THING.
>> Sreenivasan: SCARAMUCCI SAID
HE DID NOT KNOW AT THE TIME
ABOUT THE TRUMP TOWER MEETING
BETWEEN THE TRUMP CAMPAIGN
CHAIRMAN, TRUMP'S SON AND SON-
IN-LAW WITH RUSSIANS WHO HAD
PROMISED DIRT ON HILLARY
CLINTON.
BUT TODAY SCARAMUCCI CALLED IT A
"RIDICULOUS NOTHING MEETING."
THE GOVERNMENT OF ISRAEL IS
CONSIDERING SECURITY CAMERAS AS
AN ALTERNATIVE TO THE METAL
DETECTORS INSTALLED ON THE
ENTRANCE PLAZA TO JERUSALEM'S AL
AQSA MOSQUE.
THE CAMERAS WERE INSTALLED
TODAY.
ISRAEL PUT UP THE METAL
DETECTORS A WEEK AGO AFTER A
PALESTINIAN GUNMAN SHOT AND
KILLED TWO ISRAELI POLICEMAN
NEAR THE SITE, SAYING THEY WERE
NECESSARY TO PREVENT OTHER
ATTACKS.
PALESTINIAN LEADERS HAVE CALLED
FOR THE METAL DETECTORS TO BE
REMOVED.
THIS WEEK A FEDERAL JUDGE
SLAMMED A TEXAS PRISON FOR
IGNORING THE DANGER THAT HIGH
TEMPERATURES POSE TO INMATES.
READ MORE AT
www.pbs.org/newshour.
>> Sreenivasan: WHITE HOUSE
PRESS SECRETARY SARAH HUCKABEE
SANDERS SAID TODAY PRESIDENT
TRUMP SUPPORTS THE BILL WORKING
ITS WAY THROUGH CONGRESS TO
TOUGHEN SANCTIONS ON RUSSIA FOR
MEDDLING IN LAST YEAR'S ELECTION
AND FOR ITS MILITARY AGGRESSION
IN SYRIA AND UKRAINE.
THE BILL, WHICH ALSO CONTAINS
NEW SANCTIONS FOR IRAN AND NORTH
KOREA, WOULD LIMIT THE
PRESIDENT'S ABILITY TO END THE
SANCTIONS ON HIS OWN.
"NEW YORK TIMES" REPORTER MATT
FLEGENHEIMER JOINS ME NOW FROM
WASHINGTON TO DISCUSS THE
LEGISLATION.
NOW LET'S FIRST TALK ABOUT
WHAT'S IN THESE SANCTIONS.
>> IT'S ESSENTIALLY... I THINK
SOME SANCTIONS WE'VE SEEN
AGAINST OTHER COUNTRIES, THIS
IS A PACKAGE THAT INCLUDES
NORTH KOREA AND IRAN AS WELL,
ESSENTIALLY ON THE RUSSIA FRONT,
SINGLING OUT CORRUPT ACTORS WHO
SORT OF UNDERCUT AMERICAN
INTERESTS, THOSE WHO SUPPLIED
ARMS TO THE ASSAD REGIME IN
SYRIA, THOSE INVOLVED IN CYBER
SECURITY ISSUES, OBVIOUSLY,
INCLUDING DURING THE ELECTION
LAST YEAR.
SO IT'S CASTING A PRETTY WIDE
NET HERE.
>> Sreenivasan: THIS ALSO
INCLUDES... CONGRESS HAS KIND
OF BAKED IN IN THIS SANCTIONS
BILL, THE PRESIDENT COULDN'T
NECESSARILY UNDO THEM ON HIS
OWN.
>> RIGHT.
THAT'S THE PIECE OF THIS THE
DEMOCRATS HAVE BEEN MOST ADAMANT
ABOUT AND GOTTEN SOME BUY IN
FROM REPUBLICANS AS WELL.
IF YOU STEP BACK, IT'S REALLY
QUITE REMARKABLE TO THINK THAT
SIX MONTHS INTO A ADMINISTRATION
WITH MAJORITIES FROM REPUBLICANS
IN BOTH CHAMBERS OF CONGRESS
THAT YOU ARE SEEING ESSENTIALLY
A HANDCUFFING OF A SITTING
PRESIDENT ON AN ISSUE SO CENTRAL
TO THE SORT OF PUBLIC
UNDERSTANDING OF THIS PRESIDENT
WITH RUSSIA, AND ESSENTIALLY THE
MESSAGE IS HE CANNOT BE TRUSTED
NOT TO SORT OF UNDO THESE
SANCTIONS THAT AT THIS POINT A
PRETTY BROAD BIPARTISAN SUPPORT
AMONGST BOTH PARTIES IN
CONGRESS.
>> Sreenivasan: BY THE TIME IT
GETS THROUGH A VOTE ON TUESDAY,
THIS WILL ALSO INCLUDE
SANCTIONS AGAINST IRAN AND NORTH
KOREA, WHICH ARE ALSO THINGS
THAT HAVE A KIND OF A BIPARTISAN
CONSENSUS.
MAKES IT VERY, VERY TOUGH TO
VETO IT.
>> IT DOES AND THE WHITE HOUSE
HAS BEEN VERY SUPPORTIVE FOR
MONTHS OF TOUGHENING SANCTIONS
AGAINST THOSE TWO COUNTRIES.
SO IT DOES MAKES IT A MORE
DIFFICULT POSITION FOR HIM.
THE WHITE HOUSE HAS ACKNOWLEDGED
PRIVATELY FOR A FEW WEEKS NOW
THAT IT'S PRETTY UNTENABLE
POLITICALLY IN THIS ENVIRONMENT
FOR HIM TO VETO.
TODAY, FOR THE FIRST TIME, AS
YOU'VE SAID, WE'VE SEEN THEM
SIGNAL THAT HE WOULD ACTUALLY
SUPPORT THIS.
>> Sreenivasan: THE PRESIDENT...
ACTUALLY MANY PRESIDENTS HAVE
SAID THIS IS THE PURVIEW OF THE
PRESIDENCY, THIS SHOULD BE MY
RIGHT TO BE ABLE TO DO THIS,
THIS IS MY EXECUTIVE POWER.
IN THIS PIECE OF LEGISLATION,
IT'S KIND OF, AT LEAST IN THESE
PARTICULARLY SANCTIONS, WE'RE
SEEING THAT POWER LIMITED.
>> SURE, AND PRESIDENT TRUMP IS
CERTAINLY NOT THE FIRST
PRESIDENT TO CHAFE AT ANY KIND
OF SHACKLES PUT ON HIM IN
FOREIGN POLICY BUT ON HIM BY
CONGRESS.
AND, AGAIN, HAVING REPUBLICANS
IN CONGRESS WHOM THE
ADMINISTRATION HAS LOBBIED FOR
MONTHS NOW, AGAINST THESE
MEASURES, REALLY MAKES THIS A
PRETTY EXTRAORDINARY MOMENT OF
THE REPUBLICAN CONGRESS THIS
EARLY IN THE ADMINISTRATION,
SETTING THIS CHECK AGAINST THE
PRESIDENT WHEN THEY'VE BEEN
DISINCLINED TO CONFRONT HIM.
>> Sreenivasan: AND THERE WERE
DISAGREEMENTS, AT LEAST ON
THE HOUSE SIDE, WHEN THIS BILL
GOT THERE.
WHAT WERE THOSE COMPARED TO
WHAT HAD ALREADY PASSED THROUGH
THE SENATE?
>> IT WAS A COMBINATION OF
THINGS.
INITIALLY SPEAKER RYAN AND THE
MAJORITY LEADER KEVIN McCARTHY
RAISED TECHNICAL ISSUES, WITH
WHICH CHAMBER ORIGINATES BILLS
THAT HAVE TO DO WITH RAISING
REVENUE.
THERE IS SOME OTHER CONCERNS
CONCERNING AMERICAN BUSINESSES,
A LOT OF OIL AND GAS COMPANIES
LOBBIED AGAINST THESE MEASURES,
ARGUING THEY WOULD UNDERCUT
THEIR PROFITS.
DEFENSE CONTRACTORS AS WELL.
SO YOU SAW A LITTLE BIT OF A
TWEAK ON THAT IN THE HOUSE
VERSION OF THIS.
NOT CERTAINLY WHAT THE WHITE
HOUSE HOPED TO GET OUT OF THIS
BILL ONCE IT WENT THROUGH THE
SENATE IN THE FIRST PLACE.
>> Sreenivasan: MATT
FLEGENHEIMER OF THE "NEW YORK
TIMES" JOINING US IN WASHINGTON,
THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANKS, HARI.
>> Sreenivasan: FOR DECADES,
THE ITALIAN CITY OF VENICE HAS
COPED WITH FREQUENT FLOODING.
IN THE LAST CENTURY, THE
PUMPING OF GROUNDWATER FOR
DRINKING AND INDUSTRIAL USE
CAUSED THE CITY TO SINK ABOUT
FIVE INCHES INTO THE EARTH.
NOW, THE FLOODING HAS BECOME
MORE SEVERE DUE TO SEA LEVEL
RISE CAUSED BY CLIMATE CHANGE.
IN TONIGHT'S SIGNATURE SEGMENT,
NEWSHOUR WEEKEND SPECIAL
CORRESPONDENT CHRISTOPHER
LIVESAY REPORTS ON THE RISKS
FACING VENICE AND ITALY'S PLAN
TO MITIGATE THEM.
THIS STORY IS A PART OF "PERIL
AND PROMISE," OUR ONGOING SERIES
ON THE CHALLENGE OF CLIMATE
CHANGE.
>> Reporter: VENICE IS A WORLD
CLASS WONDER.
A CITY BUILT ON MORE THAN 100
SMALL ISLANDS, CONNECTED BY A
MAZE OF BRIDGES AND CANALS. THE
THE LARGEST IS THE GRAND CANAL
WITH ITS FAMOUS RIALTO BRIDGE.
OVER THE CENTURIES, VENICE HAS
STOOD THE TEST OF TIME, BUT
TODAY THIS ISLAND CITY IS UNDER
SIEGE LIKE NEVER BEFORE, FROM"
RISING" SEAS AND A "FLOOD" OF
TOURISTS.
>> THE FACT THAT WE ARE STILL
WAITING FOR ANY KIND OF SOLUTION
OF THESE PROBLEMS OF TOURISM AND
FLOODING IS DEEPLY DEPRESSING.
ALSO HOW MUCH THE WATER LEVEL
HAS RISEN.
>> Reporter: HISTORIAN MONICA
CHOJNACKA WAS BORN IN VENICE AND
PROUDLY CALLS THIS CITY HER
HOME.
>> THAT WAS THE STEP YOU GOT ON
WHEN YOU GOT OFF OF YOUR GONDOLA
OR YOUR BOAT TO GET INTO THE
HOUSE.
>> Reporter: BUT SHE'S CONCERNED
ABOUT ITS FUTURE.
>> THIS IS A STEP THAT, OF
COURSE, WHEN IT WAS BUILT WAS
NEVER DESIGNED TO BE SUBMERGED
IN WATER.
NOW IT'S ALWAYS UNDERWATER EVEN
IN THIS RELATIVELY LOW TIDE.
>> Reporter: "ACQUA ALTA,"
MEANING HIGH WATER, HAS ALWAYS
BEEN A FACT OF LIFE HERE.
SEVERAL TIMES A YEAR, HIGH TIDES
AND STORM SURGES FLOOD THE CITY,
ESPECIALLY THE FAMOUS PIAZZA SAN
MARCO.
THE WORST FLOOD OCCURRED IN
NOVEMBER 1966, WHEN THE VENICE
LAGOON ROSE MORE THAN SIX FEET
ABOVE SEA LEVEL.
AFTER THE DELUGE, THE CITY
DESIGNED AN ALERT SYSTEM WHICH
HAS KEPT PACE WITH THE TIMES.
>> WHAT HAPPENS IS WE ARE
ALERTED VIA AN APP AS WELL AS
TEXT MESSAGES AND IN ADDITION,
WE HAVE SIRENS THAT ARE BLASTED
THROUGH THE CITY.
(SIRENS WAILING)
>> Reporter: THOSE WARNING
SIRENS ARE COORDINATED FROM THIS
COMMAND CENTER ON THE GRAND
CANAL.
A SIREN IS FOLLOWED BY PITCHED
WHISTLES.
ONE WHISTLE MEANS ABOUT 12% OF
THE CITY WILL BE FLOODED, WATER
IS ANKLE DEEP, AND SHOPKEEPERS
BARRICADE THEIR DOORS.
TWO WHISTLES MEAN THE WATER WILL
BE HIGHER.
ALMOST ONE-THIRD OF THE CITY
WILL BE FLOODED.
>> THREE MEANS RUN FOR THE
HILLS, BECAUSE IT'S GOING TO BE
HIGH!
>> Reporter: VENETIANS GENERALLY
TAKE "ACQUA ALTA" IN STRIDE.
LIKE THE MANAGER OF THE GRAN
CAFFE LAVENA, MASSIMO MILANESE.
HE SHOWED US PICTURES OF HIS
CAFE DURING A RECENT FLOOD.
TABLES AND CHAIRS SITTING IN THE
WATER.
>> SEE THE SPECIAL DOOR HERE.
>> Reporter: LIKE OTHERS IN THE
PIAZZA, HE HAS FLOOD DOORS TO
PROTECT HIS BUSINESS.
HE TOOK US BEHIND THE CAFE,
WHERE THOSE FLOOD DOORS ARE
STORED.
SO THE WATER CAN ACTUALLY GET
THIS HIGH?
>> THE MAXIMUM THAT I SAW--
THIS.
>> Reporter: WHOA.
SO JUST A COUPLE OF INCHES MORE,
AND THIS WOULD HAVE BEEN
USELESS.
HE ALSO KEEPS WATERPROOF BOOTS
ON HAND FOR HIS EMPLOYEES.
ACQUA ALTA EVENTS ARE USUALLY
LESS THAN BOOT HIGH, LAST JUST A
FEW HOURS, AND THE CITY CLEANS
UP AND GOES BACK TO NORMAL.
BUT FLOODS ALSO EAT AWAY AT THE
SOFT, PERMEABLE BRICKS THAT SIT
ABOVE THE FOUNDATIONS OF THE
BUILDINGS.
OVER TIME, VENETIANS HAVE RAISED
THEIR DOORWAYS AND IN SOME CASES
ABANDONED THEIR GROUND FLOORS.
BUT THE FLOODING IS GETTING
WORSE AS THE WATER LEVEL IN THE
ADRIATIC SEA AND VENICE LAGOON
RISES DUE TO CLIMATE CHANGE.
THE SEA LEVEL ALONE HAS RISEN
FIVE AND HALF INCHES SINCE 1900,
ACCORDING TO CITY OFFICIALS.
THE ITALIAN GOVERNMENT DOES HAVE
A PLAN TO PROTECT VENICE.
IT'S CALLED THE MOSE PROJECT.
CONCEIVED IN THE 1970s, IT'S A
SERIES OF 78 UNDERWATER GATES
SECURED TO THE FLOOR OF THE
VENICE LAGOON.
DURING ESPECIALLY HIGH TIDES,
THEY WILL BE PUMPED WITH AIR AND
RISE TO THE SURFACE TO BLOCK
RISING WATER FROM REACHING THE
CITY.
FOUR GIANT BARRIERS ACROSS THREE
INLETS ARE SCHEDULED TO BE
OPERATIONAL BY 2019.
IS MOSE ABLE TO DEFEND VENICE?
>> YES, MOSE WILL BE ABLE TO
PROTECT THE CITY OF VENICE FROM
EXCEPTIONALLY HIGH WATER.
THAT MEANS WATER THAT EXCEEDS
3.5 FEET ABOVE SEA LEVEL.
>> Reporter: SO THIS IS WHAT THE
GATE LOOKS LIKE WHEN IT'S DOWN?
>> YES, THIS IS THE GATE WHEN IT
IS STANDING ON THE BOTTOM OF THE
INLET.
>> Reporter: DARIO BERTI IS
ENGINEERING AND PRODUCTION
MANAGER WITH THE COMPANY
BUILDING THE MOSE PROJECT.
CONSTRUCTION BEGAN IN 2003,
TESTING IN 2013.
IF THIS IS THE FIRST PROJECT OF
ITS KIND, HOW CAN YOU BE SO SURE
THAT IT'S GOING TO WORK?
>> WELL, THIS IS THE RESULT OF
YEARS AND YEARS OF PLANNING AND
EXPERIMENTS ON MODELS, TRIALS IN
TANKS.
IT'S BEEN TESTED IN ALL POSSIBLE
CONDITIONS.
SO, WE'RE CERTAIN IT WILL WORK.
>> ONE QUESTION ABOUT THE MOSE
PROJECT, THESE SEAWALLS, IS
WHETHER IT WILL BE EFFECTIVE?
>> Reporter: IF IT WILL BE
EFFECTIVE?
THEY'VE SPENT BILLIONS OF EUROS
ON IT.
SHOULDN'T IT BE EFFECTIVE?
>> YES, THE LATEST ESTIMATES ARE
BETWEEN $5 BILLION AND $6
BILLION EUROS HAVING BEEN SPENT
ON THIS PROJECT.
CERTAINLY A PORTION OF THAT
MONEY HAS NOT GONE TOWARDS THE
BUILDING OF THIS PROJECT BUT
RATHER TOWARDS PAYOFFS TO LOCAL
AND REGIONAL POLITICIANS AND
BUSINESS FOLK.
THREE YEARS AGO, ABOUT 35 OF OUR
LEADING CITIZENS WERE ARRESTED
ALONG WITH OUR MAYOR.
>> Reporter: THE MAYOR OF VENICE
WAS ARRESTED?
>> THE MAYOR OF VENICE WAS
ARRESTED AS WELL ON CHARGES OF
CORRUPTION CONNECTED TO THIS
PROJECT.
>> Reporter: A VERDICT ON THE
CASE OF THAT FORMER MAYOR IS
EXPECTED THIS FALL.
CONSIDERING THE CORRUPTION
SCANDALS, ENVIRONMENTAL
SCIENTIST JANE DA MOSTO SAYS THE
ITALIAN GOVERNMENT SHOULD HAVE
GONE BACK AND REVIEWED THE
ENGINEERING AND SCIENTIFIC BASIS
FOR MOSE.
>> THERE HASN'T BEEN ANY KIND OF
TECHNICAL REVIEW ABOUT WHETHER
OR NOT THEY ARE DOING THE RIGHT
THING, AND THAT I DO FIND
SERIOUSLY ALARMING.
>> Reporter: DA MOSTO IS
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR OF A
NONPROFIT GROUP CALLED "WE ARE
HERE VENICE," WHICH IS TRYING TO
RAISE AWARENESS OF THE
CHALLENGES FACING VENICE.
SO THERE'S A LOT OF CONCERN
AMONG VENETIANS THAT THE WORK AT
MOSE ISN'T BEING DONE PROPERLY?
>> IT'S NOT JUST AMONGST
VENETIANS.
ARTICLES HAVE BEEN PUBLISHED IN
NATIONAL NEWSPAPERS,
INTERNATIONAL JOURNALS.
THEY HAVE A PROBLEM ABOUT SAND
GOING INTO THE INDENTATIONS IN
THE LAGOON FLOOR, WHERE THE
PANELS THEN HAVE TO LIE BACK
DOWN AGAIN.
THEY FOUND THAT THE HINGES,
THEY'VE STARTED CORRODING MUCH
SOONER THAN THEY THOUGHT THEY
WOULD.
THEY ALSO KEEP DELAYING WHEN
THEY SAY IT'S GOING TO BE READY.
NOT A GOOD SIGN.
>> Reporter: MOSE ENGINEERS SAY
THEY ARE ADDRESSING THE ISSUES
OF SAND OBSTRUCTING THE BARRIERS
AND OF RUSTING HINGES.
BUT LUCA ZAGGIA, FROM THE
INSTITUTE OF MARINE SCIENCES
NATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCIL OF
ITALY, WARNS ASSUMING THEY WORK,
THERE'S A LIMIT TO HOW MANY
TIMES THE DEFENSIVE FLOOD
BARRIERS CAN BE DEPLOYED BEFORE
THEY DAMAGE THE LAGOON.
HOW MANY TIMES CAN YOU RAISE THE
FLOOD BARRIERS IN A YEAR?
>> WE SAY TEN TIMES A YEAR IS
THE BEST AMOUNT.
MAYBE 15 OR 20, BUT NO MORE.
>> Reporter: BUT THE CLIMATE IS
CHANGING, THE WATER LEVEL IS
RISING.
WHAT HAPPENS 20 YEARS FROM NOW,
30 YEARS FROM NOW?
IS THAT STILL GOING STILL TO BE
THE CASE?
>> NO. SURE.
WE WILL CLOSE MORE FREQUENTLY.
UP 100 TIMES A YEAR.
>> Reporter: 100 TIMES A YEAR?
WHAT IS THAT GOING TO DO TO THE
LAGOON?
>> IT WILL BE A TERRIBLE
DISASTER FOR THE ECOSYSTEM.
STAGNATION FIRST AND THEN
CONTAMINATION AND GROWTH OF
MICROALGAE.
>> Reporter: IT SOUNDS VERY
HARMFUL.
>> YEAH, IT IS.
YOU CAN HAVE MASSIVE DEATHS OF
FISHES IN SUMMER.
>> Reporter: MOST TOURISTS ARE
OBLIVIOUS TO THE BARRIER SYSTEM
AND SERIOUSNESS OF THE FLOODING
PROBLEM.
THEY ARE BUSY TAKING SELFIES,
MARVELING AT THE BEAUTY OF THIS
CAR-FREE CITY, OR TRYING TO
ESCAPE FROM THE SUMMER HEAT,
LIKE THESE TOURISTS FROM IRELAND
WE FOUND IN THE SHADE OF THE
TOWER IN PIAZZA SAN MARCO.
THEY HAD NO IDEA, UNTIL WE TOLD
THEM, THIS PLAQUE MARKS THE
HISTORIC FLOOD OF 1966, WHEN THE
WATER LEVEL WAS SO HIGH, THEIR
CHILDREN WOULD HAVE BEEN NECK
DEEP.
>> Reporter: THE 25 MILLION
TOURISTS WHO VISIT EVERY YEAR
ARE ACTUALLY ANOTHER MAJOR
THREAT TO VENICE.
SOUVENIR SHOPS AND HIGH-END
BOUTIQUES CATERING TO THEM HAVE
REPLACED VEGETABLE STANDS,
HARDWARE STORES, AND OTHER SHOPS
NECESSARY FOR DAILY LIFE.
HOUSING PRICES HAVE SOARED WITH
SPECULATORS BUYING UP PROPERTY
TO RENT TO TOURISTS.
AS A RESULT, VENETIANS ARE
MOVING AWAY.
AT THE END WORLD WAR TWO, THERE
WERE 150,000 FULL-TIME RESIDENTS
OF VENICE.
NOW, THERE ARE ONLY 54,000.
ON SOME DAYS, THERE ARE ACTUALLY
MORE TOURISTS THAN RESIDENTS,
AND THAT UPSETS VENETIANS LIKE
MATTEO SECCHI.
>> THE VENETIAN WAY OF LIFE IS
AT RISK, SIMPLY BECAUSE WE'RE
VANISHING.
THERE'S ALWAYS FEWER OF US.
WE'RE LOSING OUR CULTURE.
BECAUSE WHEN A VENETIAN LEAVES
THE CITY, HE DOESN'T JUST LEAVE
THE CITY, HE LEAVES A WAY OF
LIFE AND CULTURE.
>> Reporter: IN THIS FRAGILE
CITY, SOME RESIDENTS SAY HUGE
TOURIST CRUISE SHIPS ARE MAKING
MATTERS WORSE.
TOMMASO CACCIARI IS THE FOUNDER
OF THE GROUP "NO GRANDI NAVI,"
MEANING "NO LARGE SHIPS."
IT WANTS TO BAN LARGE CRUISE
SHIPS FROM ENTERING THE VENICE
LAGOON.
>> THERE'S A MASS AMOUNT OF
WATER THAT PUSHES BACK AND
FORTH.
IT'S CALLED SIPHONING.
IT'S LIKE AN ACCORDION THAT
SUCKS THE FOUNDATION OF THE
CITY.
THERE'S NO CONCRETE UNDER HERE.
THERE'S MUD, SOFT MATERIAL THAT
GETS SUCKED OUT.
>> Reporter: THIS PIER, HE SAYS,
REBUILT SEVEN YEARS AGO, IS
ALREADY SHOWING SIGNS OF DAMAGE
FROM THE CRUISE SHIPS.
WHEN THEY PASS BY, THEY CREATE
THIS HUGE PRESSURE THAT
BASICALLY SUCKS THE SEDIMENT OUT
FROM UNDERNEATH US AND ACTUALLY
LOWERS THE FOUNDATION.
YOU CAN SEE IT REALLY RIGHT
BEFORE YOUR EYES HERE WITH THESE
BRICKS HERE.
THE CRUISE SHIPS EMPLOY FIVE
THOUSAND VENETIANS, BUT THE
VENICE PORT AUTHORITY SAYS ONLY
ABOUT A QUARTER OF THEIR
PASSENGERS GET OFF THEM AND
SPEND MONEY IN THE CITY.
REINING IN THE SHIPS AND THE
TOURISTS IS ONE CHALLENGE HUMANS
CAN CONTROL.
CONTROLLING THE SEAS IS NOT.
WHICH IS WHY MARINE SCIENTIST
LUCA ZAGGIA IS PUTTING HIS FAITH
IN THE MOSE PROJECT TO SAVE
VENICE FOR FUTURE GENERATIONS.
SO THE SYSTEM MUST WORK.
THE ALTERNATIVE IS WHAT?
>> THE SYSTEM MUST WORK.
WE HAVE NO ALTERNATIVES AT THIS
POINT.
IT HAS TO WORK.
>> Sreenivasan: THE U.S. JUSTICE
DEPARTMENT, IN PARTNERSHIP WITH
EUROPEAN INVESTIGATORS, HAS SHUT
DOWN TWO OF THE WORLD'S LARGEST
WEBSITES ON WHAT IS KNOWN AS THE
DARK WEB.
THE BLACK MARKET SITES WERE
ALLEGEDLY PURVEYORS OF ILLEGAL
DRUGS, GUNS, AND HACKING TOOLS
ACCORDING TO FEDERAL CHARGES
ANNOUNCED ON THURSDAY.
"WIRED" MAGAZINE REPORTER ANDY
GREENBERG IS COVERING THE CASE
AND JOINS ME NOW TO DISCUSS IT.
SO, FIRST OF ALL, HOW
SIGNIFICANT WERE THESE BUSTS?
>> WELL, THIS IS DEFINITELY ONE
OF THE LARGEST BLOWS, LAW
ENFORCEMENT BLOWS TO THE DARK
WEB IN A VERY LONG TIME.
NOT ONLY IN TERMS OF SCALE,
BECAUSE THE BIGGEST OF THESE
SITES CALLED ALPHABAY, HAD TEN
TIMES AS MANY ILLEGAL PRODUCT
LISTINGS AS THE SILK ROAD.
REMEMBER, THE SILK ROAD WAS THE
ORIGINAL SORT OF DARK WEB
MARKET.
BUT ALSO THEY TOOK DOWN ANOTHER
SITE, HANSA, WHICH WAS THE
THIRD LARGEST DARK WEB MARKET,
AND BEFORE THEY TOOK IT DOWN
THEY CONTROLLED IT FOR A FULL
MONTH, SO THEY WERE ABLE TO
OBSERVE WHAT WAS HAPPENING
IN THAT UNDERGROUND MARKET AND
PROBABLY IDENTIFIED THOUSANDS OF
ITS USERS WHO MAY NOW BE
ARRESTED.
>> Sreenivasan: SO WHEN ONE OF
THESE SITES WENT DOWN, DID ALL
OF THOSE USERS MOVE TO THE OTHER
SITE?
>> THIS WAS KIND OF THE TRAP
THAT THE INTERNATIONAL POLICE
FORCES... THIS WAS ACTUALLY THE
F.B.I., D.E.A., EUROPOL AND THE
DUTCH POLICE ALL WORKING
TOGETHER.
THEY TOOK CONTROL OF THE THIRD
LARGEST SITE, AND THEN WEEKS
LATER SHUT DOWN THE VERY LARGEST
SITE AND THAT SORT OF SENT ALL
OF THE LARGEST SITE'S USERS,
ALPHABAY'S USERS, FLOCKING TO
THAT OTHER SITE SO THEY'RE ABLE
TO WATCH THEM REGISTER, THEY'RE
ABLE TO WATCH THEM DO SOME
TRANSACTIONS, PROBABLY GAIN THE
IDENTIFYING DETAILS OF MANY MORE
USERS THAT WAY.
THAT WAS CERTAINLY PART OF THEIR
INTENTION AND I THINK IT ALSO
CREATED A KIND OF PSYCHOLOGICAL
IMPACT.
THERE IS A FEAR IN THE DARK
NET NOW THAT COPS ARE
EVERYWHERE.
>> Sreenivasan: SO ARE THESE
USERS... I MEAN, THEY DON'T USE
THEIR REAL NAMES, BUT IF THEY'RE
BUYING OR SELLING PRODUCTS,
THOSE PHYSICAL PRODUCTS HAVE TO
GO SOMEPLACE IN THE REAL WORLD,
LIKE A MAILING ADDRESS, RIGHT?
IF YOU'RE BUYING DRUGS, YOU
PHYSICALLY HAVE TO GET CONTROL
OF IT.
DOES THAT MEAN THAT NOW THE
POLICE OR THE DIFFERENT
AUTHORITIES SAY NOW I KNOW I'VE
GOT YOUR ADDRESS.
>> IN THEORY, WHEN YOU BUY
DRUGS ON THE DARK WEB, YOU
ENCRYPT YOUR ADDRESS AND THEN
YOU SEND THAT ENCRYPTED ADDRESS
TO THE SELLER OF THE DRUGS, SO
THAT ONLY THE HE OR SHE CAN
DECRYPT IT AND SEE YOUR ACTUAL
WHERE YOU LIVE.
BUT LOTS OF USERS ARE CARELESS.
I WOULD SAY A MAJORITY OF USERS,
FROM WHAT I'VE SEEN ON DARK WEB
FORUMS, DON'T ENCRYPT THEIR
ADDRESSES.
>> Sreenivasan: YOU KNOW, THIS
REMINDS ME, YOU MENTIONED SILK
ROAD, WHEN THAT WENT DOWN, WE
THOUGHT THAT WAS GOING TO HAVE A
BIG IMPACT, BUT THIS IS AN
ECONOMY THAT MOVES ON, RIGHT?
TWO OTHER, THREE OTHER SITES POP
UP.
SO WHAT HAPPENS NOW?
>> THIS IS DEFINITELY NOT THE
FIRST OF THESE TAKEDOWNS AND
NONE OF THEM HAVE TAKEN A
PERMANENT BITE OUT OF THE DARK
WEB.
THE SILK ROAD IN 2013, THE
SECOND SILK ROAD, THE SEQUEL
SITE, WAS TAKEN DOWN IN 2014.
EACH TIME THE DARK WEB BOUNCES
BACK IN LARGE PART BECAUSE
PEOPLE ARE ADDICTED TO DRUGS AND
THE DEMAND DOESN'T GO AWAY IF
THEY CAN ONLY OR MOST EASILY
OBTAIN THE DRUGS THEY WANT
THROUGH THE DARK WEB INSTEAD OF
FROM THE STREETS, THEN THEY ARE
GOING TO COME BACK AND THEY
HAVE EVERY TIME.
>> Sreenivasan: SO DOES THIS
MEAN THE AUTHORITIES HAVE A
WAY TO CRACK TOR, WHICH
EVERYBODY THOUGHT WAS THIS
TOTALLY ENCRYPTED, SAFE WAY TO
COMMUNICATE ANONYMOUSLY?
>> WE DON'T KNOW HOW AT LEAST
THE THIRD LARGEST SITE IN THIS
TAKEDOWN WAS CRACKED.
THE FIRST LARGEST SITE,
ALPHABAY, THE ADMINISTRATOR HAD
ACTUALLY POSTED HIS EMAIL
ADDRESS IN THE WELCOME MESSAGE
TO THE SITE IN 2014.
THAT WAS THE FIRST CLUE THAT
ALLOWED AUTHORITIES TO START
TRACING HIM BACK TO HIS HOME
IN THAILAND, ARREST HIM.
HE ACTUALLY COMMITTED SUICIDE IN
THE THAI JAIL.
SO, IN THAT CASE, IT DOESN'T
SEEM THAT THERE WAS ANY KIND OF
TOUR BREAK THAT WAS NECESSARY.
BUT IN OTHER CASES, IT DOES
SEEM THAT LAW ENFORCEMENT HAS
BROKEN TOR.
EACH TIME, TOR USUALLY FIGURES
OUT WHAT WENT WRONG AND
PATCHES THAT FLAW, SO IT BECOMES
BECOMES SECURE AGAIN.
>> Sreenivasan: ANDY GREENBERG
OF "WIRED" MAGAZINE, THANKS SO
MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> THIS IS PBS NEWSHOUR
WEEKEND, SUNDAY.
>> Sreenivasan: THE
TWO-YEAR-OLD CIVIL WAR IN
YEMEN HAS GIVEN WAY TO AN
OUTBREAK OF CHOLERA.
THE WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION
SAYS MORE THAN 330,000 YEMENIS
HAVE BEEN INFECTED WITH CHOLERA
AND MORE THAN 1,700 PEOPLE
HAVE DIED SINCE THE EPIDEMIC
BEGAN IN APRIL.
ITN'S JANE DEITH HAS MORE.
>> ABDALLA MADE HIS MOTHER
MALAJA PROUD.
HE WENT TO SCHOOL AND ALWAYS
HELPED COLLECT WATER BUT HE'S
GONE.
TAKEN FROM HER BY CHOLERA.
>> THE DAY HE WAS TAKEN FOR
TREATMENT, HE TOLD ME, DON'T
WORRY MOM, I CAN TAKE CARE OF
MYSELF.
AND TELL DAD NOT TO WORRY.
WHEN THEY BROUGHT HIM BACK, HE
WASN'T TALKING.
AND HE WAS STILL.
I COVERED HIM.
AND IT WAS THE END.
>> Reporter: IN ANOTHER COUNTRY
MORE PEOPLE WOULD BE SAVED
WITH FLUIDS AND ANTIBIOTICS
DELIVERED QUICKLY.
BUT THIS IS YEMEN WHERE WAR HAS
LEVELED HALF THE HEALTH CLINICS.
SHIA HOUTHI REBELS DROVE THE
PRESIDENT OUT WITH IRAN'S HELP
ACCORDING TO ITS SUNNI RIVAL
SAUDI ARABIA.
THE SAUDI LED COALITION IS
FIGHTING THE REBELS WITH AIR
STRIKES.
THE U.N. SAYS THE WARRING SIDES
AND THEIR PROXIES ARE TO BLAME
FOR THIS CHOLERA EPIDEMIC WHICH
IT'S FEARED WILL INFECT MORE
THAN 600,000 PEOPLE BY THE END
OF THE YEAR.
IT'S SPREADING FASTER THAN
DURING THE WORLD'S BIGGEST
OUTBREAK AFTER THE HAITI
EARTHQUAKE.
IN YEMEN IT'S MADE WORSE BY WAR.
A U.N. VACCINE PLAN WAS PULLED
BECAUSE IT WAS TOO LATE TO DO
ANY GOOD.
MALAJA VISITS THE YOUNG BOY'S
GRAVE EVERY DAY.
A YOUNG BOY KILLED BY A DISEASE
SPREAD BY WAR.
>> Sreenivasan: RETURNING TO
OUR TOP STORY, FEDERAL
AUTHORITIES NOW SAY A TOTAL OF
NINE PEOPLE HAVE DIED FROM
BEING TRAPPED IN THAT TRACTOR
TRAILER IN SAN ANTONIO.
ALL OF THE VICTIMS WERE ADULT
MEN.
U.S. ATTORNEY RICHARD DURBIN
SAYS THE DRIVER-- 60-YEAR-OLD
JAMES MATTHEW BRADLEY, FROM
FLORIDA, WILL BE CHARGED
CRIMINALLY TOMORROW AND APPEAR
IN FEDERAL COURT.
HE'S SPENDING THE NIGHT IN JAIL.
TOMORROW ON THE NEWSHOUR--
WHAT'S THE ROAD AHEAD FOR THE
DEMOCRATIC PARTY?
WE'LL TALK WITH DEMOCRATIC
NATIONAL COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN TOM
PEREZ.
THAT'S ALL FOR THIS EDITION OF
PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN.
HAVE A GOOD NIGHT.